## Stream Processing

In this module, you'll use AWS Lambda to process data from the `wildrydes`
Amazon Kinesis stream created earlier. We'll create and configure a Lambda
function to read from the stream and write records to an Amazon DynamoDB table
as they arrive.

### Implementation

#### 1. Create an Amazon DynamoDB table

Use the Amazon DynamoDB console to create a new DynamoDB table. Call your table
`UnicornSensorData` and give it a **Partition key** called `Name` of type
**String** and a **Sort key** called `StatusTime` of type **String**. Use the
defaults for all other settings.

After you've created the table, note the **Amazon Resource Name (ARN)** for use
in the next section.

**:white_check_mark: Step-by-step Instructions**

1. Go to the AWS Management Console, choose **Services** then select **DynamoDB**
   under Database.

1. Click **Create table**.

1. Enter `UnicornSensorData` for the **Table name**.

1. Enter `Name` for the **Partition key** and select **String** for the key
   type.

1. Tick the **Add sort key** checkbox. Enter `StatusTime` for the **Sort key**
   and select **String** for the key type.

1. Leave the **Use default settings** box checked and choose **Create**.

    ![](images/stream-processing-dynamodb-create.png)

1. Scroll to the **Table details** section of your new table's properties and
   note the **Amazon Resource Name (ARN)**. You will use this in the next
   step.

#### 2. Create an IAM role for your Lambda function

Use the IAM console to create a new role. Name it `WildRydesStreamProcessorRole`
and select Lambda for the role type. Attach the managed policy called
`AWSLambdaKinesisExecutionRole` to this role in order to grant permissions for
your function to read from Amazon Kinesis streams and to log to Amazon
CloudWatch Logs. Create a policy that allows `dynamodb:BatchWriteItem` access to
the DynamoDB table created in the last section and attach it to the new role.

**:white_check_mark: Step-by-step Instructions**

1. From the AWS Console, click on **Services** and then select **IAM** in the
   Security, Identity & Compliance section.

1. Select **Policies** from the left navigation and then click **Create
   policy**.

1. Using the **Visual editor**, we're going to create an IAM policy to allow our
   Lambda function access to the DynamoDB table created in the last section.  To
   begin, click **Service**, begin typing **DynamoDB** in **Find a service**,
   and click **DynamoDB**.

1. Click **Action**, begin typing **BatchWriteItem** in **Filter
   actions**, and tick the **BatchWriteItem** checkbox.

1. Click **Resources**, click **Add ARN** in **table**, and construct the ARN of
   the DynamoDB table you created in the previous section by specifying the
   **Region**, **Account**, and **Table Name**.

     In **Region**, enter the AWS Region in which you created the DynamoDB table
     in the previous section, e.g.: us-east-1.

     In **Account**, enter your AWS Account ID which is a twelve digit number,
     e.g.: 123456789012. To find your AWS account ID number in the AWS Management
     Console, click on **Support** in the navigation bar in the upper-right, and
     then click **Support Center**. Your currently signed in account ID appears in
     the upper-right corner below the Support menu.

     In **Table Name**, enter **UnicornSensorData**.

     You should see your ARN in the **Specify ARN for table** field and it should
     look similar to:

     ![](images/stream-processing-add-arn.png)

1. Click **Add**.

1. Click **Review policy**.

    ![](images/stream-processing-review-policy.png)

1. Enter `WildRydesDynamoDBWritePolicy` in the **Name** field.

1. Click **Create policy**.

1. Select **Roles** from the left navigation and then click **Create role**.

1. Click **Lambda** for the role type from the **AWS service** section.

1. Click **Next: Permissions**.

1. Begin typing `AWSLambdaKinesisExecutionRole` in the **Filter** text box and
   check the box next to that role.

1. Begin typing `WildRydesDynamoDBWritePolicy` in the **Filter** text box and
   check the box next to that role.

1. Click **Next: Review**.

1. Enter `WildRydesStreamProcessorRole` for the **Role name**.

1. Click **Create role**.

#### 3. Create a Lambda function to process the stream

Create a Lambda function called `WildRydesStreamProcessor` that will be
triggered whenever a new record is avaialble in the **wildrydes** stream. Use
the provided index.js implementation for your function code.  Create an
environment variable with the key `TABLE_NAME` and the value
`UnicornSensorData`. Configure the function to use the
`WildRydesStreamProcessor` role created in the previous section.

**:white_check_mark: Step-by-step Instructions**

1. Go to the AWS Management Console, choose **Services** then select **Lambda**
   under Compute.

1. Click **Create a function**.

1. Enter `WildRydesStreamProcessor` in the **Function name** field.

1. Select **Node.js 10.x** from **Runtime**.

1. Select **WildRydesStreamProcessorRole** from the **Existing role** dropdown.

    ![](./images/stream-processing-lambda-basic-information.png)

1. Click **Create function**.

1. Scroll down to the **Function code** section.

1. Copy and paste the JavaScript code below into the code editor.

    ```javascript
    'use strict';

    const AWS = require('aws-sdk');
    const dynamoDB = new AWS.DynamoDB.DocumentClient();
    const tableName = process.env.TABLE_NAME;

    exports.handler = function(event, context, callback) {
      const requestItems = buildRequestItems(event.Records);
      const requests = buildRequests(requestItems);

      Promise.all(requests)
        .then(() => callback(null, `Delivered ${event.Records.length} records`))
        .catch(callback);
    };

    function buildRequestItems(records) {
      return records.map((record) => {
        const json = Buffer.from(record.kinesis.data, 'base64').toString('ascii');
        const item = JSON.parse(json);

        return {
          PutRequest: {
            Item: item,
          },
        };
      });
    }

    function buildRequests(requestItems) {
      const requests = [];

      while (requestItems.length > 0) {
        const request = batchWrite(requestItems.splice(0, 25));

        requests.push(request);
      }

      return requests;
    }

    function batchWrite(requestItems, attempt = 0) {
      const params = {
        RequestItems: {
          [tableName]: requestItems,
        },
      };

      let delay = 0;

      if (attempt > 0) {
        delay = 50 * Math.pow(2, attempt);
      }

      return new Promise(function(resolve, reject) {
        setTimeout(function() {
          dynamoDB.batchWrite(params).promise()
            .then(function(data) {
              if (data.UnprocessedItems.hasOwnProperty(tableName)) {
                return batchWrite(data.UnprocessedItems[tableName], attempt + 1);
              }
            })
            .then(resolve)
            .catch(reject);
        }, delay);
      });
    }
    ```
<button class="btn btn-outline-primary copy">Copy to Clipboard</button>

    ![](./images/stream-processing-lambda-code.png)

1. In the **Environment variables** section, enter an environment variable with
   **Key** `TABLE_NAME` and **Value** `UnicornSensorData`.

    ![](./images/stream-processing-lambda-environment-variables.png)

1. In the **Basic settings** section. Set the **Timeout** to **1** minute.

    ![](./images/stream-processing-lambda-basic-settings.png)

1. Scroll up and select **Kinesis** from the **Designer** section.

    ![](./images/stream-processing-trigger-designer.png)

1. In the **Configure triggers** section, select **wildrydes-summary** from
   **Kinesis Stream**.

1. Leave **Batch size** set to 100 and **Starting position** set to **Latest**.

1. Click **Add**.

1. Click **Enabled** to enable the trigger.

    ![](./images/stream-processing-trigger-enabled.png)

1. Click **Save**.

#### 4. Monitor the Lambda function

Verify that the trigger is properly executing the Lambda function. View the
metrics emitted by the function and inspect the output from the Lambda
function.

**:white_check_mark: Step-by-step Instructions**

1. Run the producer to start emiting sensor data to the stream with a unique
   unicorn name.

    ```console
    ./producer -name Rocinante
    ```

1. Click on the **Monitoring** tab and explore the metrics available to monitor
   the function. Click on **Jump to Logs** to explore the function's log output.

<button class="btn btn-outline-primary copy">Copy to Clipboard</button>

#### 5. Query the DynamoDB table

Using the AWS Management Console, query the DynamoDB table for data for a
specific unicorn. Use the producer to create data from a distinct unicorn name
and verify those records are persisted.

**:white_check_mark: Step-by-step Instructions**

1. Click on **Services** then select **DynamoDB** in the Database section.

1. Click **Tables** from the left-hand navigation

1. Click on **UnicornSensorData**.

1. Click on the **Items** tab. Here you should see each per-minute data point
   for each Unicorn for which you're running a producer.

    ![](images/stream-processing-dynamodb-items.png)

### :star: Recap

:key: You can subscribe Lambda functions to automatically read batches of
records off your Kinesis stream and process them if records are detected on the
stream.

:wrench: In this module, you've created a Lambda function that reads from the
Kinesis stream of summary unicorn data and saves each row to DynamoDB.

### Next

:white_check_mark: Proceed to the next module, [Data Lake][data-lake], wherein
you'll deliver the raw stream data from the Kinesis stream to Kinesis Data
Firehose for delivery to Amazon S3 and use Amazon Athena to query that raw data.

[data-lake]: data-lake.html
